List the components of Hadoop 2.x and explain them in detail.

  Hadoop is a distributed file system which is specially to run on a low cost system.it is much similar to the existing file system.
it is low cost hardware which is highly fault tolerance and can under on a low cost commodity.It can access a huge data and it is appliacble 
for all data which is in huge number i.e.large set data. And regarding scalability it could be flexible upto 10,000 nodes.as well it can be
integartaed to work with third party application.in case of Hadoop HDFS and Map Reduction is known as HDFS2 annd MP2.Instead of job tracker an task
tracker YARN is used for resourse management.

HDFS has three pillars and they are:
                                    1.)HDFS
                                    2.)YARN
                                    3.)Map Reduction

1.)HDFS: Hadoop distributed File system is known as HDFS v2.its component is known as name node and metadata is used to store the name node.
it has two namenodes one is active and one is standby.and active node is used to take care of client operation and to manage the metadata
standby namenode is used which is similar to hadoop 1.x. it is an alternate process when active node gets down the standby node will do 
the process of taking care of client operation.


2.)YARN (Yet Another Resourse Negotiator):
        
        It is just a technique for cluster management.And in Hadoop 2.X version there is a key feature 
for YARN which is of Apache Soft\ware foundation a open source distributed framework which was descriped by apache as a form of redesigned 
network.Hadoop clusture management is known as cluster esourse management which menas CPU,Memeory etc.And this cluster resourse is now taken
from map reduction to YARN and the job of map reduction is to perform the operation of data processing only.

      In case of Hadoop 1.X cluster resorse managemant has a tight coupling with map reduction. job tracker is  a part of map reduction.
which does the job of job tracker. so the job tracker takes the responsibility for map reduction and cluster resource .it'sit will allocate slot for 
each process ,runs those process and monitors thse process.once the task gets over the job tracker will clean all the pre filled slots to
make it available for upcoming work where the task need to be filled again.

     By 2010,YARN is usd as a sub-project which couples the rewrite process of map reduction resourse managementas well scheduling from
data process components.which makes hadoop to supprt many varied approach and more number of application.The major purpose of YARN is
that the applications connected with YARN will use the agents of node manager which will monitor the cluster nodes.by running commodiy
hardware the YARN will attract a large amount of structured as well unstructred data for analytical application.YARN is seperated from
map reduce by seperating HDFS which makes YARN more suitable for mny operational applications.
  
  
3.)Map Reduction: 

    In map reduction the tasks were divided into number of of tasks by mappers and reducers.and the tasks were made to run on machine
and these machines will have some already defined tasks as wll limited slots for task running process.where it's early version is called 
as MR1 in version 1.and now MR2. And it does not need any sort of job or task tracker since from the introduction of YARN.

  The MR2 when comparred to MR1 havea isolaed framework whereas, MR2 s a distributed application which is capable to run framework of
map reduction on the top of YARN.and so map reduction is generic when compared to YARN
 

